# doc_id: 053fefabd2c7-63d331c9145d
# source_path: 论文/AI Risk-Based Assurance Framework.pdf
# category: 论文
# method: local_pdftotext
# pages: 22
# sha256: 63d331c9145de75f279bcb809ceb3b64d0b00dba4f2eec18a94dc2d3d5735626

[PAGE 1]
Article

Risk-Based AI Assurance Framework
Aoun E. Muhammad *                       and Kin-Choong Yow


                                            Faculty of Engineering and Applied Science, University of Regina, Regina, SK S4S 0A2, Canada
                                            * Correspondence: amo874@uregina.ca


                                            Abstract
                                            The aim of this research is to present a risk-based AI assurance framework that produces
                                            quantifiable metrics for auditors and stakeholders to make deployment decisions with
                                            evidence-driven assurance of traceability, explainability, accountability, and reproducibility.
                                            Our proposed framework incorporates risk severity core with additional modifiers to
                                            accommodate the context, governance obligations, technical and environmental exposure,
                                            and residual risk relevant to the AI model. This multi-tiered technique enables stakeholders
                                            and governance teams to operationalize the safe deployment assurance. The final Assur-
                                            ance Adequacy Score (AAS) comprises a Governance Readiness Score (GRS) along with
                                            two additional indices to quantify the traceability and explainability of the AI model. The
                                            Traceability Adequacy Index (TAI) is calculated by evaluating the attributes such as the
                                            dataset and model versioning, pipeline logging, model audit completeness, and repro-
                                            ducibility. And an Explainability Adequacy Index (EAI) is calculated by evaluating the
                                            attributes such as the fidelity for local and global explanations, stability, faithfulness of the
                                            explanation provided, robustness, coverage, and human comprehension. This architecture
                                            enables integration of risk assessment and enables continued AI assurance by deploying
                                            a bottleneck principle where the readiness of the AI model is confined by the weaker of
                                            the indices. Finally, a tiered gate mechanism is applied on the Assurance Adequacy Score
                                            to enforce minimum assurance floors for high-risk AI systems. The evaluation conducted
                                            on multi-domain AI models demonstrates the Risk-Based AI Assurance Framework’s
                                            (RBAAF) ability to yield stable and consistent readiness decisions with sensitivity analy-
                                            sis and re-scoring. The use cases demonstrate that even comparable risk levels can lead
                                            to significantly different deployment outcomes depending on assurance maturity, and
                                            design-specific improvements in traceable or explainable domains have the ability to shift
                                            gate outcomes. Combining governance regulations with a standardized and quantifiable
                                            traceability and explainability score enables the stakeholders to evaluate the AI system for
                                            an accountable and regulation-compliant deployment.

                                            Keywords: AI risk assessment; risk scoring; risk tier classification; AI governance
                                            frameworks; risk quantification
Academic Editor: Tieling Zhang

Received: 6 January 2026
Revised: 27 February 2026
Accepted: 3 March 2026
                                            1. Introduction
Published: 5 March 2026                          The operationalization of Artificial Intelligence (AI) systems across the mission-critical
Copyright: © 2026 by the authors.           domains has also resulted in human dependence on the decision-making by these systems
Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland.          for high-risk operations such as diagnosis support, credit approval, and threat detection.
This article is an open access article
                                            And this exponential adoption has also resulted in an ever-increasing number of real-world
distributed under the terms and
                                            failures. The AI Incident Database (AIID) is a repository that documents failures such
conditions of the Creative Commons
Attribution (CC BY) license.
                                            as AI systems vulnerable to implicit bias, privacy violations, and adversarial attacks [1].



Information 2026, 17, 263                                                                                         https://doi.org/10.3390/info17030263

[PAGE 2]
Information 2026, 17, 263                                                                                             2 of 22



                            The pinpoint accuracy of AI systems is not the only criterion for AI deployment. Other
                            factors that contribute heavily to responsible AI deployment are the AI systems ability
                            to be explainable, reproducible, and traceable in their decision-making to justify their
                            deployment in mission-critical environments.
                                  The regulatory and governance frameworks such as the European Union Artificial
                            Intelligence Act (EU AI Act) [2], the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST)
                            AI Risk Management Framework (AI RMF) [3], ISO/IEC 42001 (Artificial intelligence
                            management system (AIMS)—Requirements) [4], Organization for Economic Co-operation
                            and Development (OECD) AI Policy Observatory [5] and The United Nations Educational,
                            Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) issued recommendations on the Ethics of
                            Artificial Intelligence [6] provide high-level direction on the requirements of responsible AI
                            development. All these frameworks and governance regulations collectively emphasize
                            transparency, proper documentation, decision accountability, and human oversight over AI
                            decision-making. While all these extremely important frameworks provide direction and
                            guidance on what responsible deployment should look like, they offer limited directions
                            on how to operationalize consistent risk scoring and severity benchmarking on purpose.
                            On the other hand, cybersecurity has long benefited from quantitative scoring and risk
                            measurement systems such as those presented by The Common Vulnerability Scoring
                            System (CVSS) [7], Factor Analysis of Information Risk (FAIR) [8], and NIST Special
                            Publication (SP) 800-30 Revision 1 (Guide for Conducting Risk Assessments) [9] to assist in
                            risk prioritization, and enable governance reporting.
                                  This study provides a scenario-based demonstration of Risk-Based AI Assurance
                            Framework (RBAAF) to show (i) how the auditable risk and evidence adequacy scores
                            are computed and (ii) how the proportional deployment gating performs across gover-
                            nance contexts, while the use cases are experimental demonstrations and not drawn from
                            a production ready deployment, we have made available all scoring inputs, weights,
                            and intermediate results in the Supplementary File (Supplementary Tables S1–S3) to ensure
                            re-assessment, and future empirical replication in operational settings.

                            1.1. Motivation and Problem Statement
                                 The AI Incident Database (AIID) [1], AI Vulnerability Database (AVID) [10], and MIT
                            Incident Tracker [11] document detailed descriptions of failures and hazards related to
                            AI but do not quantitatively score the AI-related risks and vulnerabilities. The regulatory
                            frameworks, such as the EU AI Act [2] and NIST AI RMF [3], categorize risk by the
                            application of the system but do not quantify technical vulnerabilities to be addressed
                            during engineering design and risk mitigation control selection. The operational gap
                            between governance-driven requirements and technical implementation of AI models
                            results in an ongoing challenge for organizations, i.e., mapping general risk awareness to
                            prioritized mitigation and deployment decisions.
                                 Our proposed framework addresses the aforementioned problems by:
                            i.     quantifying the AI-related risk by introducing a structured scoring rubric.
                            ii.    mapping regulatory risk classifications to design specifications controls by scoring
                                   technical and operational vulnerabilities.
                            iii.   Turning high-level governance requirements into measurable operations. Where NIST
                                   AI RMF defines what good governance should look like, we provide a way to quantify
                                   risk and track it repeatably across teams and over time.
                            iv.    converting risk awareness into risk prioritization and mapping identified vulnerabili-
                                   ties into a governance risk score.




                                                                                         https://doi.org/10.3390/info17030263

[PAGE 3]
Information 2026, 17, 263                                                                                             3 of 22



                            v.   avoiding static risk treatment by design. The proposed framework is proposed
                                 to ensure continuous monitoring and auditing for both pre- and post-deployment
                                 assessments, enabling it to detect fragility, drift, and tail risk.

                            1.2. Research Questions
                                During this study, we formalized the research objectives into the following research
                            questions (RQs):
                            •    RQ1: Can governance-aligned risk severity and evidence maturity be quantitatively
                                 linked for traceability and explainability?
                            •    RQ2: Does using assurance as a bottleneck term (via Traceability Adequacy Index:
                                 TAI or Explainability Adequacy Index: EAI) prevent the averaging of outcomes for
                                 readiness, especially if traceability or explainability evidence is insufficient?
                            •    RQ3: Do tier-driven assurance thresholds yield outcomes that reflect proportional
                                 governance expectations?

                            1.3. Related Work
                                  The EU AI Act [2] makes it compulsory for high-risk AI systems to maintain a record of
                            decision-making metrics and to implement controls for continuous monitoring. The NIST
                            AI RMF [3] proposes four pillars of risk mapping, measurement, management, and gover-
                            nance but does not specify how to operationalize risk scoring. ISO/IEC 42001 (Artificial
                            Intelligence management system (AIMS)—Requirements) [4] proposes an AI management
                            system that replicates the logic of its earlier established standards like ISO/IEC 27001
                            (Information security management systems (ISMS)—Requirements) [12] and ISO 31000
                            (Risk management—Guidelines) [13], to reinforce accountability as an organizational capa-
                            bility. The OECD principles [5,6] present a more human-centered, rights-aware governance
                            approach but, similar to other frameworks, do not prescribe any scoring methods. The high-
                            level compliance requirements are hard to transform into concrete engineering modules.
                                  A number of research projects related to the effectiveness of the EU AI Act show that
                            compliance becomes easier to achieve when backed by logging, traceability, and auditable
                            controls [14,15]. Researchers [16] have warned about using static risk criteria to evaluate
                            AI systems due to their dynamic nature and ever-changing deployment environment,
                            including drift and emergent behaviors.
                                  The quantitative scoring system is fairly common in the field of cybersecurity. The vul-
                            nerability scoring and risk analysis frameworks, such as CVSS [7], FAIR [8], and the NIST
                            800-30 [9] framework facilitate a common, comprehensible method for severity benchmarking.
                                  On the other hand, current AI risk management frameworks are heavily dependent
                            on taxonomies of vulnerabilities and attacks. And significantly lag in scoring mechanisms
                            to map technical vulnerabilities to severity metrics. Threat modeling frameworks such
                            as STRIDE (Spoofing, Tampering, Repudiation, Information disclosure, Denial of service,
                            Elevation of privilege) [17], MITRE ATLAS (Adversarial Threat Landscape for AI Sys-
                            tems) [18], and OWASP Top 10 for Large Language Model Applications (OWASP Top 10
                            for LLMs) [19] are helpful in identification of risk sources and implementing respective
                            mitigation techniques. But these threat modeling frameworks inherently lack the capability
                            to enable risk scoring. Other variants of threat modeling frameworks, such as STRIDE-AI
                            (an AI-adapted STRIDE threat modeling approach) [20], transform threat modeling to
                            machine learning (ML) and continuous integration and continuous delivery/deployment
                            (CI/CD) pipelines but remain primarily descriptive. Similarly, blue-team playbooks [21]
                            and reference architectures [22,23] assist in risk mitigation guidance while still leaving
                            risk prioritization an unaddressed problem. The use of static vulnerability assessment




                                                                                         https://doi.org/10.3390/info17030263

[PAGE 4]
Information 2026, 17, 263                                                                                             4 of 22



                            techniques fails to cater to the dynamic nature of complex AI systems [24–26]. This research
                            gap has resulted in AI risk-driven scorecards to explore ways for quantifiable coverage.
                                   Recent research studies related to the explainability and trustworthiness of AI demon-
                            strate the need to tackle the opaque nature of AI models in high-risk environments.
                            The explainability techniques, such as Local Interpretable Model-agnostic Explanations
                            (LIME) [27] and SHapley Additive exPlanations (SHAP) [28], provide local and global
                            attribute relevance and explanations, while Gradient-weighted Class Activation Mapping
                            (Grad-CAM) [29] provides visual explainability for deep networks. However, providing
                            explanations is not equivalent to providing assurance. The explanations can be unstable,
                            unfaithful, or provide unrelated details to the end user [30–32].
                                   Human-centric methods like evaluation criteria, causability in clinical reasoning, and
                            standardized metrics to measure fidelity, faithfulness, and robustness have been proposed
                            to provide related and adequate explanations to the human-in-the-loop (HITL) [33,34].
                            Following the enforcement of the GDPR, the “right to explanation” has been discussed as a
                            significant legal and governance expectation that encourages the provision of explanations
                            that are understandable and support accountability [35–37]. The level and quality of
                            explainability are evaluated differently in high-risk operations such as credit risk modeling
                            and clinical decision support, where decision-makers require transparency and consistent
                            behavior to do their job [38].
                                   Traceability and reproducibility are the other two attributes that, along with explain-
                            ability, form the concept of trustworthy AI. The errors in reproducibility occur mainly due
                            to having undocumented hyperparameters, inaccessible data cards, or the absence of any
                            other critical data that may result in irreplicable decision-making under nominally similar
                            conditions [39]. Techniques like model versioning, and data versioning, model lineage, data
                            lineage enabled data versioning, lineage, and documented audit trails can be used to rectify
                            these traceability issues [40]. The researchers have proposed standardizing reporting, data,
                            and model cards to ensure structured provenance in high-risk environments [41].
                                   The traceability methods like dataset version control and standardized documen-
                            tation templates enable operational logging data and model provenance, but these are
                            tool-specific measures and do not offer cross-domain compatability [40]. The majority of
                            governance frameworks, explainability methods, and traceability and reproducibility prac-
                            tices lack a scored and auditable approach that can link (i) governance-aligned risk severity,
                            (ii) traceability and reproducibility maturity, and (iii) quality of explanations’ provided
                            into deployability decisions [42–44]. Additionally, the privacy and security governance
                            is addressed via risk, control, and maturity frameworks such as NIST SP 800-53, NIST
                            SP 800-30, the NIST Privacy Framework, ISO/IEC 27701, Center for Internet Security (CIS)
                            Controls v8, and OWASP Software Assurance Maturity Model (SAMM) [45–50]. These
                            frameworks provide guidance for threat modeling, control selection, privacy risk manage-
                            ment, and secure development processes [45–50]. The Risk-Based AI Assurance Framework
                            (RBAAF) proposed in this paper uses quantitative risk scoring as the foundation with addi-
                            tional integration of traceability and explainability indices as assurance modules to ensure
                            responsible deployment, and is designed to be used alongside these privacy and security
                            frameworks rather than be used as a utility to replace them.
                                   Prior quantitative approaches in cybersecurity, such as CVSS, FAIR, and NIST risk
                            assessment guidance, provide severity benchmarking and prioritization [7–9], while the
                            AI governance frameworks, such as the EU AI Act, NIST AI RMF, ISO/IEC 42001, define
                            process and documentation expectations but do not limit their guidance with any unified
                            auditable score mapping between risk severity and evidence maturity [3,4,51]. RBAAF
                            adapts a novel approach by integrating deployability computation, i.e., it combines a
                            governance-aligned risk score (GRS) with explicit evidence adequacy indices (TAI and



                                                                                         https://doi.org/10.3390/info17030263

[PAGE 5]
Information 2026, 17, 263                                                                                                    5 of 22



                            EAI), and enforces tier-dependent thresholds through an auditable gate (Algorithm 1).
                            This approach enables RBAAF to produce reviewable and auditable deployment outcomes
                            rather than descriptive readiness assumptions.

                            Algorithm 1 RBAAF computation and deployment gate
                             1: Inputs: risk inputs L, I (and curvature k); modifier overlays C, G, T, E, R; GRS weights
                                (α, β C , β G , β T , β E , β R ); evidence component scores z(T ) ∈ [0, 1]m , z(E) ∈ [0, 1]n ; evi-
                                dence weights w(T ) , w(E) ; tier thresholds τTAI ( GRS), τEAI ( GRS).
                             2: Outputs: GRS, TAI, EAI, AAS ∈ [0, 1] and decision ∈ {Deploy, Conditional deploy,
                                Limited/internal use, Sandbox, Block, Research sandbox only}.
                            Require: GRS ∈ [0, 1]; TAI scores; EAI scores; tier thresholds τTAI,EAI ( GRS)
                            Ensure: AAS ∈ [0, 1]
                            Ensure: decision ∈ {Deploy, Conditional deploy, Limited/internal use, Sandbox,
                                      Block, Research sandbox only}
                             3: Compute TAI from weighted traceability evidence.
                             4: Compute EAI from weighted explainability evidence.
                             5: t ← min( TAI, EAI )
                                          √
                             6: AAS ←       GRS · t
                             7: if GRS ≥ 0.85 then                                                         ▷ Critical tier
                             8:     τTAI ← 0.80, τEAI ← 0.75
                             9:     if TAI ≥ τTAI and EAI ≥ τEAI then
                            10:         return ( AAS, Deploy: continuous monitoring/audits)
                            11:     else
                            12:         return ( AAS, Block)
                            13:     end if
                            14: else if 0.70 ≤ GRS < 0.85 then                                               ▷ High tier
                            15:     τTAI ← 0.70, τEAI ← 0.70
                            16:     if TAI ≥ τTAI and EAI ≥ τEAI then
                            17:         return ( AAS, Deploy with controls)
                            18:     else
                            19:         return ( AAS, Block (fix TAI or EAI))
                            20:     end if
                            21: else if 0.50 ≤ GRS < 0.70 then                                          ▷ Moderate tier
                            22:     τTAI ← 0.60, τEAI ← 0.60
                            23:     if TAI ≥ τTAI and EAI ≥ τEAI then
                            24:         return ( AAS, Conditional deploy: pilot/controlled rollout)
                            25:     else
                            26:         return ( AAS, Sandbox)
                            27:     end if
                            28: else if 0.30 ≤ GRS < 0.50 then                                                ▷ Low tier
                            29:     τTAI ← 0.50, τEAI ← 0.50
                            30:     if TAI ≥ τTAI and EAI ≥ τEAI then
                            31:         return ( AAS, Limited/internal use)
                            32:     else
                            33:         return ( AAS, Sandbox)
                            34:     end if
                            35: else                                                                     ▷ Minimal tier
                            36:     return ( AAS, Research sandbox only)
                            37: end if


                                 Evaluation and contextualization overview. We evaluated RBAAF through repro-
                            ducible end-to-end demonstrations to compute GRS, TAI, EAI, AAS, and the respective
                            gate decisions. All these scores and findings are contextualized with respect to relevant gov-
                            ernance standards, frameworks, and technical assurance practices discussed in Section 1.3.




                                                                                               https://doi.org/10.3390/info17030263

[PAGE 6]
Information 2026, 17, 263                                                                                              6 of 22



                            1.4. Contributions
                                  The contributions of this paper are as follows:
                            •     We calculate a Governance Risk Score (GRS) via a utility-transformed likelihood x
                                  impact score that accommodates context sensitivity, governance obligations, technical
                                  and environmental exposure, and residual risk.
                            •     We propose an Assurance Adequacy Score (AAS) that addresses the traceability, repro-
                                  ducibility and explainability research problems by incorporating a Traceability Adequacy
                                  Index (TAI) and an Explainability Index (EAI). Both of the aforementioned indices are
                                  calculated by analyzing the quality and documented provenance of verifiable evidence,
                                  versioning of data, model and code enabled, replication tests, and explanations provided.
                            •     We propose a final deployability gate that integrates risk scoring with assurance
                                  readiness and enforces minimum tier-specific TAI or EAI thresholds that produce
                                  auditable outcomes (Deploy, Conditional Deploy, Sandbox/Pilot, Block) whichever is
                                  suitable to ensure adherence to governance obligations.
                                  RBAAF is primarily an AI assurance and governance readiness framework that focuses
                            on operationalizing evidence maturity for traceability and explainability, while privacy
                            and security are critical aspects for trustworthy AI deployment, they are treated in this
                            research as adjacent governance domains rather than being the only scoring criterion.
                            RBAAF is intended to be used alongside established privacy engineering and security risk
                            frameworks, and any future extensions may incorporate dedicated privacy and security
                            indices as additional assurance pillars.
                                  Paper organization: The rest of this paper is organized as follows. Section 2 presents the
                            methodology for the Risk-Based AI Assurance Framework (RBAAF) that includes defining
                            and materializing the Governance Risk Score (GRS) the Traceability and Explainability
                            Adequacy Indices. Section 3 presents the evaluation results across representative use cases
                            and analyzes risk-tier behavior under uncertainty together with the resulting gate decisions.
                            Section 4 discusses practical implications, interpretability of the proposed metrics, and how
                            the framework supports governance workflows. Finally, Section 5 concludes the paper and
                            outlines directions for future work. Additionally, the Discussion and Conclusion sections
                            explicitly discuss the findings with respect to the stated RQs along with summarizing
                            limitations and outlining future research directions.

                            2. Methodology
                                 This section presents the end-to-end computation of the Risk-Based AI Assurance
                            Framework (RBAAF) including: (i) the Governance Risk Score (GRS), (ii) the Traceability
                            and Explainability Adequacy Indices (TAI/EAI) that are then used to compute the Assur-
                            ance Adequacy Score (AAS), and (iii) the tiered deployment gate that maps these scores to
                            actionable outcomes. Figure 1 presents the workflow, and Algorithm 1 shows the decision
                            procedure used throughout the evaluation.

                            2.1. Methodology Overview
                                 RBAAF operationalizes governance-aligned deployment readiness via an auditable
                            pipeline:
                            (i)   Risk scoring is calculated via a governance-aligned risk score (GRS) from severity and
                                  modifier overlays.
                            (ii) Evidence adequacy is calculated via TAI and EAI from scored, verifiable evidence
                                  artifacts.
                            (iii) Assurance synthesis is determined by combining risk and evidence maturity via
                                  t = min(TAI, EAI), and AAS is computed.



                                                                                          https://doi.org/10.3390/info17030263

[PAGE 7]
Information 2026, 17, 263                                                                                                                    7 of 22



                            (iv) Tiered deployment gate is applied to determine the decision outcome, i.e., De-
                                 ploy/Conditional deploy/Sandbox/Block.

                                                    Inputs & evidence: artifacts, provenance, logs, governance priors


                                                                             Scoring modules


                                    Governance                              Traceability                              Explainability
                                 Risk Score (GRS)                       Adequacy Index (TAI)                       Adequacy Index (EAI)




                                                                       Readiness Aggregator√
                                                               t = min(TAI, EAI), AAS = GRS · t




                                                                   RBAAF Deployment Gate
                                                          compare (TAI, EAI) vs thresholds by GRS tier




                                                                            Output:
                                                         Deploy / Conditional Deploy / Sandbox / Block


                            Figure 1. RBAAF architecture consisting of three scoring modules (GRS, TAI, and EAI).

                                 The Risk-Based AI Assurance Framework (RBAAF) produces a readiness recommen-
                            dation that comprises a Governance Risk Score (GRS) and Assurance Adequacy Scores
                            (AAS). This approach enables RBAAF to evaluate and quantify the maturity of traceability
                            and explainability evidence. RBAAF is designed to inherently support and operationalize
                            the governance practices like internal reviews and conformity assessments by provid-
                            ing continuous and discrete outcomes of Deploy, Conditional Deploy, and Block. These
                            outcomes are directly mapped to risk classification concepts as laid out in governance
                            regulations and frameworks [2–4].
                                 RBAAF has three main components:
                            1.   Governance Risk Score (GRS): a composite score bounded by [0, 1] and is derived from
                                 a utility-transformed severity score (L × I) and five governance modifiers.
                            2.   Assurance Adequacy Scores (AAS): that comprises a Traceability Adequacy Index
                                 (TAI) and an Explainability Adequacy Index (EAI), each bounded by [0, 1].
                            3.   Integration and gating: is the final bottleneck rule where the model readiness is
                                 bounded by the weaker of TAI and EAI. At this stage we compare the gate results with
                                 the tier-specific thresholds to produce a deployability outcome.

                            2.2. Materials
                                  During this research, five use-case demonstrations are used for evaluation, span-
                            ning from cybersecurity intrusion detection and biometric access control to credit risk
                            scoring. The use cases A1 and A2 are L-XAIDS implementation in a lab scenario and
                            Security Operations Center (SOC)-ready deployment, respectively. The use cases B1 and
                            B2 are evaluations of biometric access control with weak and strong assurance evidence,
                            respectively. Lastly, C1 is the demonstration and evaluation of a credit scoring AI model.
                            For each case, we specify (i) GRS inputs (severity and modifier overlays with weights) and
                            (ii) evidence vectors for traceability and explainability used to compute TAI and EAI. All
                            parameter demonstrations, intermediate metrics, and computed outputs are provided in
                            Supplementary Tables S1–S3 to enable reassessment.




                                                                                                                https://doi.org/10.3390/info17030263

[PAGE 8]
Information 2026, 17, 263                                                                                                                          8 of 22



                            2.3. RBAAF Framework Overview
                                 Figure 1 illustrates the architecture of RBAAF by showing how the Governance Risk
                            Score (GRS) and the two Assurance Adequacy Scores (TAI, EAI) are combined via a
                            bottleneck gate to produce an auditable deployability recommendation.

                            2.4. Governance Risk Score (GRS)
                                 The main sub-components of GRS are the (i) Risk Severity Core and (ii) governance-
                            relevant modifier overlays. Both of these components are discussed below.

                            2.4.1. Risk Severity Core
                                 Risk severity is calculated as the product of Likelihood (L) and Impact (I) as per
                            the standard risk analysis practices [9]. Likelihood addresses the probability of a given
                            vulnerability materializing under realistic exposure. And Impact deals with the expected
                            consequence of the vulnerability, if exploited. To reduce the saturation effects and preserve
                            discriminability for higher risks, we apply a utility transform to the L · I:

                                                                                   U ( L, I ) = 1 − e−k( L· I ) ,                                      (1)

                            where k is a calibration constant that controls the curvature and sensitivity at higher L · I
                            values. Figure 2 shows the behavior of the curvature constant at different values for the
                            utility transformation as defined in Equation (1).

                                                1




                                               0.8
                            U (S) = 1 − e−kS




                                               0.6




                                               0.4




                                               0.2




                                                0
                                                     0   0.1   0.2     0.3     0.4      0.5     0.6      0.7        0.8    0.9    1
                                                                     Normalized severity core S = L · I


                                                               k=1           k=2          k=3           k=4               k=5

                            Figure 2. Utility transform U (S) = 1 − e−kS for normalized severity core S = L · I ∈ [0, 1] for different
                            values of curvature constants.

                            2.4.2. Governance-Relevant Modifier Overlays
                                The dynamic nature of risks in AI model deployment is unique, as it is not only
                            dependent on the baseline risk severity but also on the context in which the AI model is



                                                                                                                      https://doi.org/10.3390/info17030263

[PAGE 9]
Information 2026, 17, 263                                                                                                9 of 22



                            being used and the governance obligations with respect to the jurisdiction and domain of
                            its application. We therefore incorporate five normalized modifier overlays in GRS:
                            •    Context sensitivity (C) modifier incorporates the criticality of the sector AI is being
                                 used in, groups affected by the usage, and the safety and rights sensitivity.
                            •    Governance (G) modifier deals with the regulatory and organizational controls re-
                                 quired to be implemented before the AI model deployment, such as continuous
                                 logging, human oversight, conformity assessment, and documentation provenance.
                            •    Technical exposure (T) modifier deals with the attack surface related to the AI model
                                 under evaluation, accessibility of the system, integration complexity with already
                                 deployed systems, and technical exposure if a model is exploited.
                            •    Environmental exposure (E) modifier deals with the operational environment un-
                                 certainty, the adversarial pressure, and the performance and volatility of the model
                                 being deployed.
                            •    Residual risk (R) modifier consists of the risk remaining after controls and safeguards
                                 have been implemented. This shows the quantifiable risk appetite of the organization
                                 deploying or using the AI model, along with controls it has already implemented
                                 and risk that is still present.
                                 The Governance Risk Score is computed as a weighted combination of the risk severity
                            core and governance-relevant modifier overlays:

                                              GRS = α · U ( L, I ) + β C C + β G G + β T T + β E E + β R R,                  (2)

                            where
                                                α + β C + β G + β T + β E + β R = 1,       GRS ∈ [0, 1].                     (3)

                                The cumulative weights approach is adapted to ensure the organizations can fine-
                            tune their governance posture as per their organizational requirements. For example,
                            a more conservative deployment may emphasize more on G and R, whereas for a more
                            security-specific deployment, organizations may emphasize more on T and E [8].

                            2.4.3. Risk Tiering and Uncertainty Characterization
                                 The GRS values are mapped to risk tiers to support the operational use of threshold-
                            based decisions and to ensure consistent reporting. This risk tiering aligns with the practical
                            requirement to transform continuous risk into actionable governance by implementing
                            additional compensating controls, strict human oversight requirements, or domain restric-
                            tions [2,3].
                                 Table 1 shows the tier band definitions used throughout the paper to map risk tiering
                            to assurance thresholds defined in Section 2.6.
                                 The risk scoring for AI is often dependent on incompleteness or absence of evidence,
                            inconsistent documentation, and ever-changing threat landscapes. We employ uncertainty
                            characterization via probabilistic aggregation and Monte Carlo simulation to assess the
                            stability and relevance of risk tier assignments, ranking, and prioritization [52,53]. The un-
                            certainty characterization enables us to score each dimension as a distribution rather than
                            a point estimate. This enables estimation of percentile scores P50 and P90 and volatility.
                            The use of uncertainty characterization provides governance support to the decisions by
                            differentiating between the inherently high-risk vulnerabilities whose exploitative conse-
                            quences remain robustly under uncertainty and the borderline risks where tier classification
                            is subjective to assumption sensitivity.




                                                                                            https://doi.org/10.3390/info17030263

[PAGE 10]
Information 2026, 17, 263                                                                                                                                                  10 of 22



                                                                 Table 1. Governance Risk Score (GRS) tier bands used in RBAAF.

                                                                 Tier            GRS Range         Governance Posture
                                                                                                   Highest oversight and strict evidence requirements with the expectation
                                                                 Critical             ≥0.85
                                                                                                   of continuous monitoring measures in place.
                                                                                                   Strong mitigating controls and monitoring should be implemented prior
                                                                 High             0.70–0.84
                                                                                                   to wide-scale deployment.
                                                                 Moderate         0.50–0.69        Pilot or controlled roll-out with very explicit remediation plan in place.
                                                                                                   Limited/internal use AI models with baseline controls and risk mitiga-
                                                                 Low              0.30–0.49
                                                                                                   tion defined.
                                                                 Minimal              <0.30        AI models applicable for research sandbox only.


                                                                     The uncertainty characterization can be summarized as the percentiles for conservative
                                                                 governance, i.e., P50 vs. P90, and a full distributional variability under Monte Carlo
                                                                 simulation. Figure 3 illustrates both these characterizations. The evaluation scenarios
                                                                 depicted in Figures 3–5 follow the five use-case demonstrations defined in Section 2.

                                                      GRS percentile summary (P50 vs P90) GRS variability (Monte Carlo propagation)
                        Governance Risk Score (GRS)




                                                        1

                                                      0.8

                                                      0.6

                                                      0.4

                                                      0.2

                                                        0
                                                            A1     A2       B1   B2    C1     C2               A1    A2    B1    B2       C1     C2


                                   P50                                                  P90                          P50→P90 range                      Low threshold
                                   Moderate threshold                                   High threshold               Critical threshold

                                                                 Figure 3. GRS uncertainty characterization. (Left): percentile summary (P50 vs. P90). (Right): distri-
                                                                 butional variability from Monte Carlo simulation shown as manual whisker-box summaries (P10/Q1/
                                                                 median/Q3/P90).




                                                                 Figure 4. (Left) GRS tiers and deployment floors (Right) Iso-AAS contours visualizing
                                                                 readiness ranking.




                                                                                                                                               https://doi.org/10.3390/info17030263

[PAGE 11]
Information 2026, 17, 263                                                                                             11 of 22




                            Figure 5. Assurance bottleneck map for RBAAF. Color encodes t = min(TAI, EAI). Tiered deploy-
                            ment gates are shown as nested rectangles.

                            2.5. Assurance Adequacy Scores (AAS): Traceability and Explainability
                                 Assurance Adequacy Scores (AAS) are calculated by evaluating documented artifacts
                            to support auditability, accountability, and independent verification of the evidence [4,39,40].
                            The two indices AAS relies on are: a Traceability Adequacy Index (TAI) and an Explainabil-
                            ity Adequacy Index (EAI). Both of these indices are normalized to [0, 1] and computed as
                            weighted aggregates of evidence. Default component weights used to compute TAI and
                            EAI are listed in Table 2.

                            Table 2. Default weights for Assurance Adequacy Scores: TAI and EAI.

                            Component                              Default Weight    Justification
                            Traceability Adequacy Index (TAI)
                                                                                     ability to record, maintain, reconstruct
                            Dataset provenance and versioning            0.20
                                                                                     exact training/evaluation data lineage.
                                                                                     ability to recovers exact model binary
                            Model and config versioning                  0.20
                                                                                     and training configuration.
                                                                                     ability to provide audit-ready reproduc-
                            Pipeline logging and audit trails            0.20
                                                                                     tion of runs and decisions.
                                                                                     ability to ensure end-to-end provenance
                            Lifecycle trace control points               0.20
                                                                                     of decisions and access.
                                                                                     ability to demonstrate successful reruns
                            Reproducibility replication                  0.20
                                                                                     under similar controlled conditions.
                            Explainability Adequacy Index (EAI)
                                                                                     Explanations provided must reflect ac-
                            Fidelity and faithfulness                    0.20
                                                                                     tual model behavior.
                                                                                     Explanations provided should not vary
                            Stability/robustness                         0.15
                                                                                     unpredictably under small perturbations.
                                                                                     Explanations provided must be available
                            Coverage                                     0.15
                                                                                     across all relevant outputs and regimes.
                                                                                     Explanations provided must support
                            Human comprehensibility and task fit         0.15        stakeholder decision making, and
                                                                                     should have operational benefit.
                                                                                     Supports policy consistency and gover-
                            Global consistency (runs/splits)             0.15
                                                                                     nance repeatability.
                                                                                     Ensures explanations are retrievable
                            Operational logging of explanations          0.20
                                                                                     and auditable at scale.




                                                                                          https://doi.org/10.3390/info17030263

[PAGE 12]
Information 2026, 17, 263                                                                                                  12 of 22



                            2.5.1. Traceability Adequacy Index (TAI)
                                  TAI evaluates, quantifies, and records the end-to-end provenance of data, models,
                            code, decisions, and all other system components by reviewing the available documentation
                            for lifecycle elements listed below:
                            1.   Dataset versioning and provenance—evaluates the system’s ability to protect against
                                 tampering or unapproved changes [40,41].
                            2.   Model and configuration versioning—evaluates the system’s ability to ensure models
                                 and configurations are not prone to tampering or unapproved changes. This can
                                 be accomplished by recording, tracking, and maintaining the model checkpoints,
                                 hyperparameters, random seeds, and dependency capture [39].
                            3.   Pipeline logging and audit trails—evaluates the system’s ability to record, track, and
                                 maintain the variety of logs (execution, access, decision) for audit-ready reproductions
                                 and reruns [2,4].
                            4.   Lifecycle trace control points—evaluates the system’s ability to enforce checkpoints
                                 across the lifecycle by implementing logging of change-control events, access autho-
                                 rization, deployment approvals, and rollback triggers.
                            5.   Reproducibility replication—evaluates the ability of the AI model to reproduce results
                                 under controlled reruns with the same data and configurations. It also assists in
                                 documenting the degree and causes of deviations [39].
                                  Each of these lifecycle elements is evaluated based on the completeness and verifiabil-
                            ity of the aforementioned artifacts and documents.
                                  Let z(T ) ∈ [0, 1]m denote the normalized evidence component scores used to compute
                            the traceability adequacy index. In our demonstrations, m and n are set as follows: m = 5
                            for traceability components (Table 2) and n = 6 for explainability components (Table 2).
                                                                                                (T )
                                 With non-negative weights w(T ) and satisfying ∑m
                                                                                 j =1 w j              = 1, we compute:

                                                               m                 m
                                                       TAI = ∑ w j               ∑ wj
                                                                     (T ) (T )          (T )
                                                                         zj ,                  = 1.                             (4)
                                                              j =1               j =1


                            2.5.2. Explainability Adequacy Index (EAI)
                                  Explainability Adequacy Index (EAI) evaluates, quantifies, and records the quality of
                            the explanations provided and the corresponding stability with respect to model behavior
                            and stakeholder usability. EAI is calculated by evaluating the explanations provided and
                            criteria commonly recommended in the explainable AI literature, as mentioned below:
                            •    Fidelity and faithfulness—deals with the quality of explanations provided, which
                                 should consistently align with the actual model behavior [30,34].
                            •    Stability and robustness—deals with the invariance of explanations under small
                                 perturbations or resampling of the test data [30,31].
                            •    Coverage- deals with the availability and details of explanations across relevant model
                                 outputs, subpopulations, and operating conditions [32,33].
                            •    Human comprehensibility—deals with whether explanations provided support real
                                 decision-making operations, including operational interpretations [32].
                            •    Global consistency (runs/splits)—evaluates the explanation behavior and checks if
                                 the explanations are consistent for retraining runs, dataset splits, and time windows.
                                 Furthermore, it checks if explanations provided are reproducible and consistent with
                                 organizational policies.
                            •    Operational logging of explanations—evaluates and tracks whether explanations are
                                 generated, stored, versioned, and are retrievable. Information such as model version,




                                                                                               https://doi.org/10.3390/info17030263

[PAGE 13]
Information 2026, 17, 263                                                                                                    13 of 22



                                 input identifiers, explanation method, and timestamps should be included to enable
                                 auditors and stakeholders to evaluate the AI model in depth.
                                  Explanations provided for AI decision-making can either be local [27] or global, model-
                            agnostic or model-specific. Our prior work demonstrated the value explainability adds to
                            the workflow in security context [54]. EAI protects against the manipulation of explainabil-
                            ity requirements by just presenting the explanations. The mere presence of explanations
                            is considered insufficient, and there should be verifiable evidence present to ensure that
                            explanations are stable, faithful, and usable.
                                  Let z(E) ∈ [0, 1]n denote the normalized evidence component scores used to compute
                            explainability adequacy (e.g., fidelity/faithfulness, stability/robustness, coverage, human
                                                                                                   ( E)
                            task-fit). With nonnegative weights w(E) satisfying ∑nk=1 wk                  = 1, we compute:

                                                               n                       n
                                                       EAI = ∑ wk                     ∑ wk
                                                                     ( E) ( E)              ( E)
                                                                         zk ,                       = 1.                         (5)
                                                              k =1                   k =1

                            2.6. Deployable Gate Outcomes
                                  RBAAF integrates risk (GRS) and assured adequacy score (AAS) using a bottleneck
                            principle. The deployment readiness is constrained by the weaker of traceability or explain-
                            ability maturity. We define:
                                                              t = min( TAI, EAI ),                                   (6)

                            and Assurance Adequacy Score is defined as as a risk-weighted readiness measure:
                                                                           √
                                                                   AAS =         GRS · t.                                        (7)

                                 This technique ensures that systems with high risk but weak evidence maturity are
                            scored appropriately and prevents a ‘formal compliance’ decision where nominal docu-
                            mentation is present but is not able to support audit functions, reproduce the decision,
                            or provide a faithful and credible explanation [42,43]. Algorithm 1 provides the summary
                            of the computation of TAI, EAI, AAS, and the tiered gating decision.

                            Tiered Gating Thresholds
                                 The deployment decisions are provided by comparing the calculated TAI and EAI with
                            the tiered thresholds that proportionally increase with the governance risk. This pattern
                            reflects the regulatory logic regarding higher-risk systems requiring stricter mitigation or
                            compensating controls, extensive documentation, and constant oversight [2–4]. RBAAF
                            provides the following decision gate outcomes:
                            •    Deploy—The deploy outcome is produced when the AI system under evaluation
                                 meets the minimum requirements of tier-specific evidence. For Critical tiers, the AI
                                 models are allowed to be deployed only when there are controls for continuous
                                 monitoring and audits in place. And, for High-risk tier AI models, deployment is
                                 allowed only if proper controls are in place. Unconditional deployment is not allowed
                                 if the AI model is classified in the Critical- or High-risk tiers.
                            •    Conditional deploy—The conditional deployment is allowed for Moderate-risk tier
                                 AI systems that meet the evidence requirements. The deployment may be restricted to
                                 pilot or controlled rollouts with an explicit remediation plan.
                            •    Limited or internal use—The limited or internal use is an outcome for Low-risk tier
                                 AI systems that meet the evidence requirements.
                            •    Sandbox—The sandbox outcome is for AI systems where evidence requirements are
                                 not met for Low-risk tier AI systems or Moderate-risk tier systems. Hence, the system




                                                                                               https://doi.org/10.3390/info17030263

[PAGE 14]
Information 2026, 17, 263                                                                                               14 of 22



                                   is confined to sandbox deployment until appropriate mitigation or compensating
                                   controls are implemented.
                            •      Block—The block outcome is produced when evidence or artifact requirements are
                                   not met for High-risk or Critical-risk tier AI systems.
                            •      Research sandbox only—Minimal-risk tier systems with minimal risk but also almost
                                   negligible controls are restricted to research sandbox use.
                                   Table 3 defines the tiered TAI/EAI floors that determine deployability for each GRS tier.

                            Table 3. RBAAF deployment gate criteria with respect to TAI and EAI as required by GRS.

                            GRS Band       GRS Range     TAI Min.    EAI Min.   Decision
                                                                                Deploy only with continuous monitoring and
                            Critical         ≥0.85        ≥0.80         ≥0.75   audits. BLOCK if monitoring and audits are
                                                                                not configured.
                                                                                Deploy with controls. BLOCK if controls are
                            High            0.70–0.84     ≥0.70         ≥0.70
                                                                                not configured.
                                                                                Conditional deploy for pilot or controlled roll-
                            Moderate        0.50–0.69     ≥0.60         ≥0.60   outs. Sandbox mode deployment only if reme-
                                                                                diations are not configured.
                                                                                Limited or internal use deployment is allowed.
                            Low             0.30–0.49     ≥0.50         ≥0.50   Sandbox mode deployment only if thresholds
                                                                                are not met.
                            Minimal          <0.30           –            –     Allowed for Research sandbox only.


                                  Figure 4 illustrates the gate as a risk-versus-assurance map where we have used
                            t = min(TAI, EAI) on the horizontal axis and GRS on the vertical axis. Image on the
                            Left shows the operational deployment logic with horizontal bands indicating the GRS
                            risk tiers, and thick tier boundary lines mark the tier cut-offs. The dashed step functions
                            show the minimum assurance floors required for Conditional and Deploy outcomes as
                            an AI system is eligible for deployment only if its bottleneck assurance t is better than the
                            tier-specific deploy floor. Otherwise, it is downgraded to the conditional deployment or
                            blocked if it lies below the tier. Image on the Right shows the iso-AAS contours derived
                                            √
                            from AAS = GRS · t, which provides a continuous readiness ranking. For a fixed risk
                            level, higher t increases AAS. And, for a fixed assurance level, higher GRS reduces AAS.
                                  Figure 5 shows the summary of assurance maturity via the (TAI, EAI) plane.
                            The heatmap shows the encoding of the bottleneck principle, such as the limiting pil-
                            lar, whether it be traceability or explainability, always determining the assurance readi-
                            ness level.

                            3. Results
                                  We evaluated the performance of RBAAF on a number of simulated AI models for
                            testing purposes. The evaluations comprise five use-case scenarios (A1, A2, B1, B2, and C1),
                            each one with fully specified risk inputs and evidence vectors detailed in Supplementary
                            Tables S1–S3. For each case, we computed GRS, TAI, EAI, and AAS and applied tiered gates.
                            This helped us in analyzing the stability of GRS rankings under uncertainty as well as the
                            repeatability of TAI or EAI evidence scoring under reassessment. We also compared the
                            integrated gating outcomes to baseline practices that rely on qualitative documentation
                            without standardized evidence scoring.

                            3.1. GRS Behavior and Risk-Tier Stability
                                 The GRS score generates monotonic risk tier assignments for all the AI models eval-
                            uated. These tier assignments remain stable under uncertainty characterizations. The
                            P50 scores maintain the rank order with respect to deterministic estimates when scoring


                                                                                           https://doi.org/10.3390/info17030263

[PAGE 15]
Information 2026, 17, 263                                                                                             15 of 22



                            inputs are passed as distributions. Additionally, the P90 values indicate assumption sen-
                            sitivity [52,53] for borderline use cases. The uncertainty characterization is an important
                            add-on to test for operational governance, as it ensures that deployment outcomes are
                            robust and that smaller perturbations will not bring any significant changes to the audit
                            findings [3,9].
                                  The AI models with comparable risk severity scores are classified differently when the
                            deployment context differs. The difference in context can be and is not limited to rights
                            sensitivity, information being evaluated, or jurisdictional obligations being different for
                            different geographical locations. This observation supports the guidelines provided in
                            governance frameworks to treat risk as not only a model property but also a use-case and
                            operational attribute [2,4–6]. Figure 3 shows the percentile and distributional uncertainty
                            endorsing the tier classification when conducting tier-stability analysis.

                            3.2. Relevance Analysis
                                 TAI and EAI modules ensure that RBAAF provides operational assessments when
                            evaluating the documentation, evidences or artifacts. TAI scores improve when there are
                            measures in place for dataset versioning, model versioning, reproducible run manifests,
                            and audit-ready logs. All these techniques ensure end-to-end provenance and consistency
                            of decisions that is the core spirit of the traceability phenomenon [4,39,40]. The cases
                            of missing documentation or provenance via tools only—such as absence of identifiers
                            in logs or no data or model lineage—result in lower TAI scores. This approach ensures
                            that TAI operates on principle of verifiable artifacts instead of just evaluating narrative
                            descriptions [40].
                                 The mere presence of explanations is not enough to skew EAI scores to acceptable
                            levels. Rather the EAI considers the quality and stability of explanations provided to the
                            users. The AI systems using standard explainable AI methods like LIME or SHAP may
                            improve EAI only if they are accompanied by evidence of fidelity, faithfulness, stability
                            under perturbations, robustness checks, and stakeholder usability assessment [27–32]. This
                            approach resulted in alignment with earlier concerns of untested explanations to be used
                            to induce overtrust or mask failure modes [33].

                            3.3. RBAAF Performance for the Use-Case Applications
                                 We have evaluated RBAAF against three AI models on five different use cases. L-
                            XAIDS [54] is evaluated for two different use cases. A1 being L-XAIDS’ use as an academic
                            prototype and then as an operational utility, A2 in a Security Operations Center (SOC)
                            environment. Likewise, biometric access control is assessed twice, B1 with weak TAI and
                            EAI, and less assurance. And B2 being a case of high assurance with stronger scores in TAI
                            and EAI. Both are subject to EU AI Act Annex III [51], as biometric identification systems
                            are explicitly classified as high-risk systems. The third AI model evaluated is for credit
                            scoring that is subject to Basel III guidelines [9] and EU AI Act [51] Annex III regulations.
                            Table 4 summarizes the computed scores and gate outcomes for all use-case applications.
                                 We note that the values reported in Table 4 are calculated outputs obtained by cal-
                            culating the GRS scoring inputs (severity core and modifier overlays) and the assurance
                            evidence vectors for TAI and EAI for each use case, and then applying Equations (2)–(5) and
                            Algorithm 1. The details of these calculations are provided with the complete parameter
                            definitions and step-by-step calculations for all cases in Supplementary Table S1, including
                            the risk inputs (e.g., L, I, and modifier overlays C, G, T, E, R with their respective weights),
                            intermediate metrics and terms, and the resulting GRS, TAI, EAI, and AAS values.
                                 The use-case results show the expected governance pattern observed across regulatory
                            and management systems guidance. We observe that as the risk score increases, the burden



                                                                                          https://doi.org/10.3390/info17030263

[PAGE 16]
Information 2026, 17, 263                                                                                              16 of 22



                            of evidence for traceability and explainability must also increase proportionately to ensure
                            the responsible deployment of high-risk AI systems. In RBAAF, this proportionality is
                            operationalized by mapping continuous risk (GRS) with tiers and tier-dependent minimum
                            floors for both TAI and EAI. This approach ensures an auditable and repeatable gate
                            outcome across domains.

                            Table 4. RBAAF Use-case summary.

                            Case                          GRS    TAI     EAI     AAS     Gate Decision
                                                                                         Conditional deployment only with pi-
                            L-XAIDS A1 (lab)              0.62   0.714   0.735   0.665   lot or controlled rollouts. Classified
                                                                                         in Moderate GRS tier
                                                                                         Deploy with controls and continous
                            L-XAIDS A2 (SOC)              0.83   0.714   0.735   0.770   monitoring since classified in High
                                                                                         GRS tier
                                                                                         BLOCK the deployment since it fails
                            Biometric access control B1   0.88   0.26    0.39    0.48    TAI and EAI requirements. Lies in
                                                                                         Critical GRS tier.
                                                                                         Deploy with continuous audits since
                                                                                         TAI and EAI indices, and AAS score
                            Biometric access control B2   0.88   0.86    0.75    0.814
                                                                                         is above the threshold. GRS score is
                                                                                         in critical tier.
                                                                                         Deploy with controls since its a high
                                                                                         GRS classified system. TAI and EAI
                            Credit scoring C1             0.81   0.83    0.75    0.782
                                                                                         match the miminum requirement for
                                                                                         the tier


                            3.3.1. Cybersecurity Intrusion Detection (L-XAIDS) [54]
                                 In the evaluation of intrusion detection settings, explainability is important because it
                            provides security analysts an ability to understand why an alert is generated in order to
                            respond to threats and avoid false positives. RBAAF evaluated the explainability artifacts,
                            and they contributed positively to EAI, but readiness was confined by the stability and
                            faithfulness of explanation and also on the pipeline artifacts to ensure reproducibility
                            (TAI). The proper versioning and documented audit logs resulted in improved TAI, but if
                            evidence maturity was incomplete, the deployment gate produced a conditional outcome
                            that explicitly identified traceability remediation as the blocking factor [39,40].

                            3.3.2. Biometric Access Control
                                  The use of AI for biometric access control inherently increases the governance sensi-
                            tivity because of its implications on privacy and potential discriminatory outcomes [2,36].
                            Due to this inherent high-risk nature of the application, RBAAF rightly assigned higher risk
                            tiers to the biometric AI models. Hence, this tier assignment requires stricter TAI and EAI
                            thresholds. In use case B2, the model lineage, dataset provenance, and decision logging are
                            enabled. Hence, it achieved higher TAI, which was the opposite when compared to use case
                            B1. The outcome of both these use cases demonstrates the effectiveness of conservative gate
                            decisions that are consistent with regulatory expectations for high-risk use cases. RBAAF
                            ensures that high-risk AI systems are not allowed to deploy unless both traceability and
                            explainability evidence maturity meet the tier-specific minimum thresholds, aligning the
                            gate outcome with stricter regulatory expectations for high-risk use cases [2,4].

                            3.3.3. Credit Risk Scoring
                                The use of AI systems in credit risk scoring requires transparency and sufficient
                            explanations to be provided for human oversight. These requirements are driven by
                            governance regulations and stakeholder needs [36–38]. In the use case C1, the TAI score



                                                                                           https://doi.org/10.3390/info17030263

[PAGE 17]
Information 2026, 17, 263                                                                                              17 of 22



                            is significantly better than the EAI score, which results in the bottleneck term t confined
                            by EAI. RBAAF, in turn, produces a conditional gate outcome that focuses on the quality
                            improvements of the explanation provided. This outcome illustrates the operational value
                            of integrating evidence maturity into governance decisions [3,4].
                                  Compared to approaches that rely on qualitative documentation alone, the RBAAF
                            demonstrations produce a verifiable link that maps declared risk inputs with relevant
                            evidence artifacts to provide quantifiable scores and an explicit deployability decision. This
                            approach makes it easier to audit why a system is granted a decision outcome of Deploy,
                            Conditional, Sandbox, Block under any given governance posture.

                            4. Discussion
                                  The results of this study enforce a central pillar of responsible AI deployment, i.e., quan-
                            titative risk scoring is necessary to measure risks but is not sufficient unless it is combined
                            with targeted risk treatment and auditable assurance, as demonstrated in Section 3. RBAAF
                            exhibits three intended behaviors across all the evaluated scenarios. Firstly, it shows its in-
                            herent property of risk proportionality. The cases that lie in higher GRS tiers require stricter
                            evidence floors to pass the deploy gate. Secondly, it shows the native property of bottleneck
                            conservatism. In cases where even when one pillar is strong, the weaker of traceability or ex-
                            plainability evidence reduces the overall readiness because t = min(TAI, EAI) limits AAS
                            with the weaker assurance axes. Lastly, it demonstrates the inherent property of auditability.
                            RBAAF requires the inputs, weights, and intermediate terms to be explicitly defined. This
                            ensures that respective scores, objective understanding regarding risk magnitudes, risk
                            appetites, and gate decisions can be independently verified and re-assessed.
                                  The Governance Risk Score (GRS) enables organizations to prioritize risks and helps
                            address the recurring operational gaps in AI governance. Many risk assessments remain
                            qualitative, which in turn makes it difficult to benchmark the risks consistently across
                            systems and deployments [2–4]. The TAI score provides coverage for proper documentation
                            of evidence and artifacts. The lack of evidence results in scores that would demonstrate
                            the AI model’s lack of deployment readiness even when the technical performance metrics
                            appear to be plausible. The EAI score provides coverage for explanations that are tested for
                            fidelity, faithfulness, robustness, relevance, and stability.
                                  Our research shows that RBAAF should be treated as a governance workflow com-
                            ponent rather than using it as a one-time assessment criterion. The following sequence is
                            recommended for implementing RBAAF: (i) compute GRS scores to prioritize risk assess-
                            ment and treatment; (ii) compute and evaluate TAI scores to ensure provenance, logging,
                            and reproducibility requirements are met; (iii) compute and evaluate EAI scores to ensure
                            explanation quality is appropriate and useful for the stakeholders; and (iv) apply tiered gate
                            outcomes to produce actionable and auditable decisions with proper remediation plans
                            in place. The architecture of RBAAF complements the governance procedures outlined in
                            NIST AI RMF [3] and ISO/IEC 42001 [4].
                                  Summary of use-case scenarios: The outcomes of five use-case scenarios demonstrate
                            that the deployment gate metrics are not just a cosmetic addition to risk scoring. This
                            approach materially changes the deployability decisions when evidence maturity is weak,
                            as evident in Table 4 and Section 3.3. These findings support the hypothesis that risk
                            severity alone is insufficient for responsible deployment, especially if it is without any
                            auditable evidence of maturity. Additionally, uncertainty characterization via P50, P90,
                            and Monte Carlo variability demonstrates a robustness check for borderline tier decisions
                            and aligns with risk-assessment guidance emphasizing sensitivity to assumptions [9,52,53].
                                  Prior governance frameworks and regulations like the EU AI Act, NIST AI RMF,
                            ISO/IEC 42001, and OECD/UNESCO focus primarily on documentation, transparency



                                                                                           https://doi.org/10.3390/info17030263

[PAGE 18]
Information 2026, 17, 263                                                                                            18 of 22



                            principles, accountability of the decisions, and continuous monitoring. But these frame-
                            works and guidelines intentionally do not restrict organizations with operational detail for
                            quantitative risk scoring, linking evidence maturity to deployability outcomes, or any other
                            operational implementations [2–6]. On the contrary, quantitative scoring and risk analysis
                            is an approach used for some time in the cybersecurity domain. CVSS and FAIR are used
                            by organizations to support consistent risk prioritization and reporting [7–9].
                                  RBAAF bridges these two approaches by (i) quantifying governance-aligned severity
                            in a repeatable manner and (ii) adding evidence-backed adequacy indices (TAI and EAI) to
                            translate traceability and explainability readiness into auditable deployment gate outcomes.
                            This design addresses the observed gap where many AI risk taxonomies remain descriptive
                            without a comparable benchmarking mechanism [42–44].
                                  Because weight profiles and thresholds encode organizational posture and risk ap-
                            petite, practical use of RBAAF should include lightweight sensitivity checks such as varying
                            α and modifier weights β, or TAI and EAI component weights within plausible ranges,
                            to verify whether tier assignment and gate decisions remain stable. This supports gover-
                            nance robustness and reduces dependence on any single assumed parameter setting, con-
                            sistent with uncertainty-aware risk assessment practice [9,52,53]. RBAAF can be integrated
                            into existing model governance routines such as pre-deployment reviews, change-control
                            and change management routines, and periodic audits by treating GRS as the prioritization
                            metric and using TAI and EAI as non-exhaustive evidence checklists that are re-calculated
                            when models, data, or deployment contexts change. This approach supports repeatable
                            reporting to internal risk committees and stakeholders and enables traceable justification
                            for deployability outcomes with explicit remediation targets.

                            5. Conclusions
                                 This paper presented the Risk-Based AI Assurance Framework (RBAAF) that inte-
                            grates quantitative risk scoring with model assurance evidence to ensure responsible AI
                            deployment. RBAAF is designed to map high-level governance requirements into op-
                            erationally measurable criteria. Overall, our results show the practicality of RBAAF by
                            demonstrating that risk scoring alone cannot guarantee responsible AI deployment. By in-
                            tegrating risk scores with standardized, evidence-driven assurance indices, RBAAF ensures
                            traceability, reproducibility, explainability, and accountability in AI systems with processes
                            in place that can be embedded directly into internal audits and conformity assessments.
                                 Revisiting the research questions. Overall, the findings of this research address the
                            three research questions defined in Section 1.2.
                            •    For RQ1, RBAAF establishes an auditable, quantitative link between governance-
                                 aligned risk severity and evidence maturity by calculating GRS, TAI, EAI, and AAS
                                 from declared inputs, weights, and evidence artifacts (see Section 3 and Supplementary
                                 Tables S1–S3).
                            •    For RQ2, RBAAF addresses this RQ by integrating assurance as a bottleneck term
                                 via t = min(TAI, EAI) that prevents optimistic readiness outcomes and does not
                                 average out the indices. Instead, it limits the deployment outcome with the weaker
                                 index which is reflected in the gate outcomes for cases with weak evidence pillars
                                 (Section 3.3).
                            •    For RQ3, RBAAF employs a tier-dependent assurance thresholds that yields deploy-
                                 ment outcomes of Deploy, Conditional deploy, Sandbox and Block. This tiered ap-
                                 proach reflects the proportional governance expectations across use cases, as summa-
                                 rized in Table 4 and discussed in Section 4.
                                Limitations and future work. RBAAF presented in this paper is evaluated on the
                            reported experiments and scenarios, should not be treated as an out-of-the-box, tailor-made



                                                                                         https://doi.org/10.3390/info17030263

[PAGE 19]
Information 2026, 17, 263                                                                                                      19 of 22



                            solution for all possible scenarios. Practical use of RBAAF may require understanding
                            of the technical and operational landscape of the organization, as well as adhering to the
                            understanding of applicable governance obligations. This study is scenario-based and
                            uses weight profiles. Organizations may need to calibrate the thresholds against their
                            respective risk appetite and audit outcomes. From a framework-extension perspective,
                            future work may include: (i) learning or calibrating weight profiles and tier thresholds from
                            organizational incident history and audit outcomes; (ii) adding dedicated adequacy pillars
                            for privacy and security indices to extend AAS beyond traceability and explainability; and
                            (iii) automating evidence extraction from logs, registries, and CI/CD artifacts to reduce the
                            assessor’s or auditor’s documentation burden [3,4,9]. As AI governance regimes, such as
                            EU AI Act conformity assessment practices or ISO 42001, mature, the auditable scoring-
                            and-gating framework like RBAAF can support the standardized evidence-based reporting
                            across teams and deployments. The future research direction based on RBAAF may
                            focus on empirical validation in real organizational deployments such as audit cycles or
                            conformity-assessment workflows to evaluate the evidence scoring, threshold calibration
                            against risk appetite for specific high-risk domains, and the predictive utility of gate
                            outcomes for post-deployment incidents and remediation effectiveness.

                            Supplementary Materials: The following supporting information can be downloaded at: https:
                            //www.mdpi.com/article/10.3390/info17030263/s1, Table S1: GRS inputs and term-by-term cal-
                            culations (Equations (1)–(5)). Table S2: Scenario-specific traceability evidence scores and weighted
                            computation of TAI using default weights. Table S3: Scenario-specific explainability evidence scores
                            and weighted computation of EAI using default weights. Table S4: End-to-end derivation of bottle-
                            neck term t = min(TAI, EAI), AAS.

                            Author Contributions: A.E.M. conceived the study, developed the methodology, performed the
                            analysis, and wrote the manuscript. K.-C.Y. supervised the research and provided critical feedback
                            on the methodology and manuscript revisions. All authors have read and agreed to the published
                            version of the manuscript.

                            Funding: This research received no external funding.

                            Institutional Review Board Statement: Not applicable.

                            Informed Consent Statement: Not applicable.

                            Data Availability Statement: The datasets analyzed in this study are publicly available from the AI
                            Incident Database (AIID) and the AVID-ML Repository (AVID-ML). No new datasets were generated
                            during the current study.

                            Acknowledgments: We thank the reviewers and editors for their time and constructive feedback. We
                            also acknowledge the support of colleagues and collaborators who contributed through discussions
                            and early input.

                            Conflicts of Interest: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.

                            Abbreviations
                            The following abbreviations are used in this manuscript:

                            AI                 Artificial Intelligence
                            AIID               AI Incident Database
                            EU AI Act          European Union Artificial Intelligence Act
                            AVID               AI Vulnerability Database
                            ATLAS              MITRE Adversarial Threat Landscape for AI Systems
                            CIA                Confidentiality, Integrity, Availability
                            CVSS               Common Vulnerability Scoring System
                            FAIR               Factor Analysis of Information Risk



                                                                                                   https://doi.org/10.3390/info17030263

[PAGE 20]
Information 2026, 17, 263                                                                                                        20 of 22



                                  GDPR               General Data Protection Regulation
                                  HIPAA              Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act
                                  HITL               Human-in-the-Loop
                                  ISO/IEC 27001      Information security management systems—Requirements
                                  ISO 31000          Risk management—Guidelines
                                  ISO/IEC 42001      AI Management System (AIMS)
                                  NIST AI RMF        NIST AI Risk Management Framework
                                  OECD               Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development
                                  OWASP              Open Worldwide Application Security Project
                                  UNESCO             United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization
                                  RBAAF              Risk-Based AI Assurance Framework
                                  GRS                Governance Risk Score
                                  TAI                Traceability Adequacy Index
                                  EAI                Explainability Adequacy Index
                                  AAS                Assurance Adequacy Score
                                  NIST               National Institute of Standards and Technology
                                  SP                 Special Publication
                                  CIS                Center for Internet Security
                                  SAMM               Software Assurance Maturity Model
                                                     Spoofing, Tampering, Repudiation, Information disclosure, Denial of service,
                                  STRIDE
                                                     Elevation of privilege
                                  LLM                Large Language Model
                                  ML                 Machine Learning
                                  CI/CD              Continuous Integration and Continuous Delivery/Deployment
                                  LIME               Local Interpretable Model-agnostic Explanations
                                  SHAP               SHapley Additive exPlanations
                                  Grad-CAM           Gradient-weighted Class Activation Mapping


References
1.    Partnership on AI. AI Incident Database. 2023. Available online: https://incidentdatabase.ai/ (accessed on 17 February 2026).
2.    European Commission. Regulation (EU) 2024/1689 of the European Parliament and of the Council on Artificial Intelligence (Artificial
      Intelligence Act); Official Journal of the European Union: Luxembourg, 2024.
3.    National Institute of Standards and Technology. AI Risk Management Framework (AI RMF 1.0); Technical Report; U.S. Department
      of Commerce: Gaithersburg, MD, USA, 2023. [CrossRef]
4.    ISO/IEC 42001:2023; Artificial Intelligence—Management System. International Organization for Standardization: Geneva,
      Switzerland, 2023.
5.    Organisation for Economic Co-Operation and Development. OECD AI Policy Observatory. 2023. Available online: https:
      //oecd.ai/en/ (accessed on 17 February 2026).
6.    UNESCO. Recommendation on the Ethics of Artificial Intelligence; UNESCO: Paris, France, 2021.
7.    FIRST.org. Common Vulnerability Scoring System v3.1: Specification Document. 2019. Available online: https://www.first.org/
      cvss/ (accessed on 17 February 2026).
8.    The Open Group. FAIR: Factor Analysis of Information Risk. 2022. Available online: https://www.opengroup.org/open-fair
      (accessed on 17 February 2026).
9.    National Institute of Standards and Technology. Guide for Conducting Risk Assessments (NIST SP 800-30 Rev. 1); Technical Report;
      U.S. Department of Commerce: Gaithersburg, MD, USA, 2012.
10.   Berryhill, J.; Gehrke, N. The AVID Taxonomy for AI Vulnerabilities. 2022. Available online: https://avidml.org/ (accessed on 10
      August 2025).
11.   Massachusetts Institute of Technology. MIT AI Incident Tracker. 2023. Available online: https://airisk.mit.edu/ai-incident-
      tracker (accessed on 10 August 2025).
12.   ISO/IEC 27001:2022; Information Security, Cybersecurity and Privacy Protection—Information Security Management Systems—
      Requirements. International Organization for Standardization: Geneva, Switzerland, 2022.
13.   ISO 31000:2018; Risk Management—Guidelines. International Organization for Standardization: Geneva, Switzerland, 2018.
14.   Pavlidis, G. Unlocking the black box: Analysing the EU artificial intelligence act’s framework for explainability in AI. Law Innov.
      Technol. 2024, 16, 293–308. [CrossRef]



                                                                                                     https://doi.org/10.3390/info17030263

[PAGE 21]
Information 2026, 17, 263                                                                                                         21 of 22



15.   Ramos, S.; Ellul, J. Blockchain for artificial intelligence (AI): Enhancing compliance with the EU AI Act through distributed ledger
      technology. A cybersecurity perspective. Int. Cybersecur. Law Rev. 2024, 5, 1–20. [CrossRef]
16.   Laux, J.; Wachter, S.; Mittelstadt, B. Trustworthy artificial intelligence and the European Union AI Act: On the conflation of
      trustworthiness and acceptability of risk. Regul. Gov. 2023, 18, 3–32. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
17.   Microsoft. The STRIDE Threat Model. 2009. Available online: https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/security/develop/
      threat-modeling-tool (accessed on 17 February 2026).
18.   MITRE Corporation. Adversarial Threat Landscape for Artificial-Intelligence Systems (ATLAS). 2023. Available online:
      https://atlas.mitre.org/ (accessed on 17 February 2026).
19.   OWASP Foundation. OWASP Top 10 for Large Language Model Applications. 2023. Available online: https://owasp.org/www-
      project-top-10-for-large-language-model-applications/ (accessed on 17 February 2026).
20.   Mauri, L.; Damiani, E. Modeling threats to AI-ML systems using STRIDE. Sensors 2022, 22, 6662. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
21.   Tan, M.; Yamaguchi, K.; Raney, A.; Nockles, V.; Leblanc, M.; Bendelac, S. An AI blue team playbook. In Proceedings of the
      Assurance and Security for AI-Enabled Systems, National Harbor, MD, USA, 21–25 April 2024; p. 26. [CrossRef]
22.   Tyler, M.; McCeney, J. Assured AI reference architecture. In Proceedings of the Assurance and Security for AI-Enabled Systems,
      National Harbor, MD, USA, 21–25 April 2024; p. 27. [CrossRef]
23.   Hamon, R.; Junklewitz, H.; Garrido, J.S.; Sánchez, I. Three challenges to secure AI systems in the context of AI regulations. IEEE
      Access 2024, 12, 61022–61035. [CrossRef]
24.   Kim, D.; Shin, G.; Han, I.; Oh, H.; Han, M. Attack graph design and target priority based on attacker capabilities and network
      vulnerabilities. J. Korean Inst. Intell. Syst. 2022, 32, 332–339. [CrossRef]
25.   Petersen, E.; Ganz, M.; Holm, S.H.; Feragen, A. On (assessing) the fairness of risk score models. In Proceedings of the 2023 ACM
      Conference on Fairness, Accountability, and Transparency (FAccT ’23); Association for Computing Machinery: New York, NY, USA,
      2023; pp. 817–829. [CrossRef]
26.   Anand, P.; Singh, Y.; Selwal, A.; Singh, P.K.; Ghafoor, K.Z. IVQFIoT: An intelligent vulnerability quantification framework for
      scoring Internet of Things vulnerabilities. Expert Syst. 2021, 39, e12829. [CrossRef]
27.   Ribeiro, M.T.; Singh, S.; Guestrin, C. “Why Should I Trust You?”: Explaining the Predictions of Any Classifier. In Proceedings of
      the 22nd ACM SIGKDD International Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining (KDD ’16), New York, NY, USA,
      13–17 August 2016; pp. 1135–1144. [CrossRef]
28.   Lundberg, S.M.; Lee, S.I. A Unified Approach to Interpreting Model Predictions. In Proceedings of the Advances in Neural Information
      Processing Systems (NeurIPS 30); Guyon, I., Luxburg, U.V., Bengio, S., Wallach, H., Fergus, R., Vishwanathan, S., Garnett, R., Eds.;
      Curran Associates, Inc.: Red Hook, NY, USA, 2017; Volume 30.
29.   Selvaraju, R.R.; Cogswell, M.; Das, A.; Vedantam, R.; Parikh, D.; Batra, D. Grad-CAM: Visual Explanations from Deep Networks
      via Gradient-based Localization. In Proceedings of the IEEE International Conference on Computer Vision (ICCV), Venice, Italy,
      22–29 October 2017; pp. 618–626. [CrossRef]
30.   Zhou, J.; Gandomi, A.; Chen, F.; Holzinger, A. Evaluating the quality of ML explanations: A survey. Electronics 2021, 10, 593.
      [CrossRef]
31.   Buçinca, Z.; Lin, P.; Gajos, K.; Glassman, E. Proxy tasks and subjective measures can be misleading in evaluating XAI systems. In
      Proceedings of the 25th International Conference on Intelligent User Interfaces, Cagliari, Italy, 17–20 March 2020; pp. 454–464.
      [CrossRef]
32.   Kim, J.; Maathuis, H.; Sent, D. Human-centered evaluation of XAI applications: A systematic review. Front. AI 2024, 7, 1456486.
      [CrossRef]
33.   Langer, M.; Baum, K.; Hartmann, K.; Hessel, S.; Speith, T.; Wahl, J. Explainability auditing for intelligent systems: A rationale
      for multi-disciplinary perspectives. In Proceedings of the 2021 IEEE 29th International Requirements Engineering Conference
      Workshops (REW), Notre Dame, IN, USA, 20–24 September 2021; pp. 164–168.
34.   Doshi-Velez, F.; Kim, P. Towards a rigorous science of interpretable machine learning. arXiv 2017, arXiv:1702.08608. [CrossRef]
35.   Papadimitriou, R. The right to explanation in the processing of personal data with the use of AI systems. Int. J. Law Chang. World
      2023, 2, 43–55. [CrossRef]
36.   Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the Protection of Natural Persons
      with Regard to the Processing of Personal Data and on the Free Movement of Such Data (General Data Protection Regulation).
      2016. Available online: https://eur-lex.europa.eu/eli/reg/2016/679/oj. (accessed on 24 August 2025).
37.   Wachter, S.; Mittelstadt, B.; Russell, C. Why a right to explanation matters in AI. Harv. J. Law Technol. 2017, 31, 491–505.
38.   Bracke, P.; Datta, A.; Jung, C.; Sen, S. Machine learning explainability in finance: An application to default risk analysis. SSRN
      2019. [CrossRef]
39.   Gundersen, O.; Kjensmo, S. State of the art: Reproducibility in artificial intelligence. In Proceedings of the Thirty-Second AAAI
      Conference on Artificial Intelligence, New Orleans, LA, USA, 2–7 February 2018; Volume 32. [CrossRef]




                                                                                                     https://doi.org/10.3390/info17030263

[PAGE 22]
Information 2026, 17, 263                                                                                                          22 of 22



40.   Mora-Cantallops, M.; Sánchez-Alonso, S.; García-Barriocanal, E.; Sicilia, M. Traceability for trustworthy AI: A review of models
      and tools. Big Data Cogn. Comput. 2021, 5, 20. [CrossRef]
41.   Namlı, T.; Sınacı, A.; Gönül, S.; Herguido, C.; García-Canadilla, P.; Muñoz, A.; Ertürkmen, G. A scalable and transparent data
      pipeline for AI-enabled health data ecosystems. Front. Med. 2024, 11, 1393123. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
42.   Raji, I.; Kumar, I.; Horowitz, A.; Selbst, A. The fallacy of AI functionality. In Proceedings of the 2022 ACM Conference on Fairness,
      Accountability, and Transparency, Seoul, Republic of Korea, 21–24 June 2022; pp. 959–972. [CrossRef]
43.   Slattery, P.; Saeri, A.; Grundy, E.; Graham, J.; Noetel, M.; Uuk, R.; Thompson, N. The AI risk repository. AGI 2024, 1. [CrossRef]
44.   Wei, M.; Zhou, Z. AI Ethics Issues in Real World: Evidence from AI Incident Database. Available online: https://hdl.handle.net/
      10125/103236 (accessed on 17 February 2026).
45.   Joint Task Force. Security and Privacy Controls for Information Systems and Organizations; NIST Special Publication 800-53 Rev. 5;
      National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST): Gaithersburg, MD, USA, 2020. [CrossRef]
46.   Joint Task Force Transformation Initiative. Guide for Conducting Risk Assessments; NIST Special Publication 800-30 Rev. 1; National
      Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST): Gaithersburg, MD, USA, 2012. [CrossRef]
47.   Boeckl, K.; Lefkovitz, N. NIST Privacy Framework: A Tool for Improving Privacy Through Enterprise Risk Management, Version 1.0;
      NIST Cybersecurity White Paper NIST.CSWP.01162020; National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST): Gaithersburg,
      MD, USA, 2020. [CrossRef]
48.   ISO/IEC 27701:2025; Information Security, Cybersecurity and Privacy Protection—Privacy Information Management Systems—
      Requirements and Guidance. International Organization for Standardization (ISO): Geneva, Switzerland; International Elec-
      trotechnical Commission (IEC): Geneva, Switzerland, 2025.
49.   Center for Internet Security (CIS). CIS Critical Security Controls Version 8; Center for Internet Security (CIS): New York, NY,
      USA, 2021.
50.   OWASP Foundation. OWASP Software Assurance Maturity Model (SAMM) Version 2; Release announcement (SAMM v2); OWASP
      Foundation: Wilmington, DE, USA, 2020.
51.   European Commission. Proposal for a Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council Laying Down Harmonised
      Rules on Artificial Intelligence (Artificial Intelligence Act). 2021. Available online: https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/
      TXT/?uri=CELEX:52021PC0206 (accessed on 17 February 2026).
52.   Dou, M. Principle and applications of Monte-Carlo simulation in forecasting, algorithm and health risk assessment. Highlights
      Sci. Eng. Technol. 2024, 88, 406–414. [CrossRef]
53.   Pasupuleti, M. Stochastic computation for AI: Bayesian inference, uncertainty, and optimization. Int. J. Acad. Ind. Res. Innov.
      2025, 5, 1–23. [CrossRef]
54.   Muhammad, A.E.; Yow, K.C.; Bačanin-Džakula, N.; Khan, M.A. L-XAIDS: A LIME-based eXplainable AI framework for intrusion
      detection systems. Clust. Comput. 2025, 28, 654. [CrossRef]

Disclaimer/Publisher’s Note: The statements, opinions and data contained in all publications are solely those of the individual
author(s) and contributor(s) and not of MDPI and/or the editor(s). MDPI and/or the editor(s) disclaim responsibility for any injury to
people or property resulting from any ideas, methods, instructions or products referred to in the content.




                                                                                                      https://doi.org/10.3390/info17030263
